greetings toefl candidates imagine you
arrive
at your toefl exam and you open up
your reading test and you come to this
question
now you might feel a bit of panic a bit
of fear
what is this question what kind of
information is it trying to find
my name's mark i'm one of the expert
teachers here at e2 language
and today we'll be looking at how to
answer
sentence simplification questions by the
end of this lesson
you'll have a better understanding of
how the questions are designed
and how to avoid all the mistakes that
people make
when trying to answer them let's take a
close look
at sentence simplification this question
is specifically testing your ability to
identify
one sentence from a list of four
and it must mean the same thing as in
the text
it is also making sure that you
understand
paraphrasing now the easy part is that
these questions
are very easily identifiable
you will always see the following at the
beginning
which of the following best expresses
the essential
information in the highlighted sentence
today we'll look at the four simple
steps that you need to take
to answer these questions very
straightforward
first you read the question
then you read the relevant sentence
carefully after that you read the answer
options
and finally you eliminate incorrect
answer options
and select the correct one now let's
jump back to the text that i showed you
at the beginning
but we're only going to look first at
the question let's have a look together
which of the following best expresses
the essential
information in the highlighted sentence
incorrect answer choices change the
meaning
in important ways or leave out essential
information
and today you'll see examples of what
that will look like
next we're going to take a look at the
sentence
take a moment if you want to pause the
video go ahead and
read the sentence by yourself
all right if you read that great we'll
take a quick look at it together
the sentence says since the study
also calculates how much critical
infrastructure
such as hospitals fire stations roads
and power plants
coral reefs protect from coastal
flooding
comma governments are better able to
make decisions
as to how they can direct their efforts
in order to save lives and avoid
economic losses let's take a moment to
look at exactly what this
sentence is giving us it is a two
clause sentence you can see here
everything up until that comma after
flooding so the first half
is talking about a cause all right
since the study calculates you might
also see
because the study calculates any time
you see a word like because or since
you might be looking at a cause and
effect relationship
so that first sentence from since until
flooding
that is showing us the cause coral reefs
protect from coastal flooding the second
part
governments are better able to make
decisions
as to how they can direct their efforts
so
they learn something from the study
cause
effect they make better decisions
often you might see something like as a
result
or consequently and that could work here
as well
coral reefs protect from coastal
flooding as a result
governments are better able to make
decisions
as to how they direct their efforts
so understanding how these two ideas
connect you'll be better able to find
the paraphrasing
in the possible answers let's take a
look at that
next all right now if you want you can
pause the video take a look at the four
options there
see if you can figure out which one is
the correct one
all right hopefully you've taken a look
at that let's take a look at these
together starting first with a
decisions about how to protect both the
people
and the economy should avoid
taking into account the value of
critical
infrastructure b
critical infrastructure decisions must
be made
according to the findings of the study
see government decisions have improved
critical infrastructure and protected
the environment
or d governments can make decisions
about environmental protection more
easily
by considering effects on safety and
financial impact now we're going to take
a look together at the
wrong and the right answers and the most
important thing to do
is not just to be happy if you got the
right answer
but make sure you really understand why
the right one is right
and why the wrong ones are wrong so
remember the more you practice
these questions the easier it's going to
be to identify the correct answers
and the incorrect answers in the future
let's take a look at a
a is incorrect this one
reverses what the text says
that means that this sentence
is telling you the opposite of the
sentence
in the text now one thing you can look
out for here
is words like avoid or not
these are often indicators that they're
showing something that is
opposite to what you've read you can
very
easily find these kinds of words like
avoid
uh prevent not they come up quite
frequently
this one says decisions about how to
protect people
should avoid taking into account the
value of critical
infrastructure and the text is saying
the opposite
they are saying because of the value
of this infrastructure governments
should be thinking about it
when they make decisions as i said
keep an eye out for words like not and
avoid they will come up
frequently the test designers love these
words
let's move on to b b was also
incorrect critical infrastructure
decisions must be made
according to the findings of the study
now there's a few
issues here one of them is simply that
word must
there is nothing in the text that is
saying that
governments have to do anything the
other problem here is that it does leave
out a lot of essential information
so they talk about the infrastructure
and they talk about the study
but they don't mention any of the
environmental issue which is coastal
flooding
and how that can be affected by focusing
on
protecting the economy or saving lives
again it's another key word to watch out
for must
also words like should or might these
can be
very very important single words that
you can focus on
that'll help you better understand what
to look for
in the test let's take a look at c
now c is wrong because it's reversing
the cause and effect
relationship they are suggesting that
government decisions
have already had an effect
government decisions have already
improved the infrastructure and
protected
the environment but the sentence in the
text
is saying that it's the other way around
if we think about protecting the
environment and think about critical
infrastructure
we can make better decisions so the
cause
is protecting the environment and
thinking about critical infrastructure
and the effect is making better
decisions
let's move on to d and i'm sure as you
figured out
d is the correct answer let's take a
look
governments can make decisions about
environmental protection
more easily by considering effects
on safety and financial impact
so that's the correct order now i would
just say
watch out for two things here it is the
correct cause and effect
but in this sentence they have the
effect first
governments make better decisions that's
the effect
of considering effects on safety and
financial
impact so in the sentence in the text
it came in the order of cause and effect
but here in d
it's the opposite order it goes effect
better decisions
cause considering safety and financial
impact the relationship of cause and
effect
is very important in sentence
simplification
questions but you may also see it
have an impact on some of the other
questions in your toefl reading test
so just some tips and tricks to remind
you first of all
try to understand the overall message of
the passage
the better you understand the whole text
the easier these questions are going to
be
secondly try to understand how the ideas
connect
is it a cause and effect relationship
how do these two ideas connect
so that's a lot of information you guys
but remember practice makes
perfect so for more practice sign up for
free at e2language.com
and if you're looking for more help
check out the toefl mini
mock test we'll help you look at your
reading and see what you're getting
right
and what you're getting wrong and that's
sentence simplification
i'm mark and i'll see you later
you